JP-3342: Reorganize outlier detection documentation (#8880)
spacetelescope/jwst: docs/jwst/outlier_detection/outlier_detection_imaging.rst

.. _outlier-detection-imaging:

Imaging Data
============

This module serves as the interface for applying ``outlier_detection`` to direct
image observations, like those taken with MIRI, NIRCam, and NIRISS.
A :ref:`Stage 3 association <asn-level3-techspecs>`,
which is loaded into a :py:class:`~jwst.datamodels.ModelLibrary` object,
serves as the basic format for all processing performed by this step.
This routine performs the following operations:

> #. Extracts parameter settings from input models and merges them with any user-provided values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Extract parameter settings for the input models and merge them with any user-provided values.
```

   See :ref:`outlier detection arguments <outlier_detection_step_args>` for the full list of parameters.

#. By default, resample all input images to the same output WCS. The resample process is
   controlled by the ``fillval``, ``pixfrac``, ``kernel``, and ``good_bits`` parameters;
   see the :ref:`outlier detection arguments <outlier_detection_step_args>` for more information.
   Resampling can be turned off with the ``resample_data`` parameter.

   * Compute an output WCS that is large enough to encompass all the input images.

>    * Resample all images from the *same exposure* onto this output WCS to create a mosaic of all the chips
>      for that exposure.  This product is referred to as a "grouped mosaic" since it groups all the chips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Resample all images from the *same exposure* onto this output WCS to create a mosaic of all the detectors
     for that exposure.  This product is referred to as a "grouped mosaic" since it groups all the detectors
```

   * Add a user-specified background value to the median image to match the original background levels
     of the input mosaic. This is controlled by the ``backg`` parameter.
   * Compute the spatial derivative of each pixel in the blotted median images by computing the absolute value
     of the difference between each pixel and its four surrounding neighbors, recording the largest
     absolute difference as the derivative. The derivative is multiplied by the ``scale`` parameter,
     allowing user flexibility in determining how aggressively to flag outliers at this stage.
   * Flag cosmic rays and other blemishes (such as satellite trails) based on the derivative image.
     Where the difference is larger than can be explained by a combination of noise statistics,
     the flattening effect of taking the median, and an error in the shift
     (the latter two effects are estimated using the image derivative), the suspect pixel is considered
     an outlier. The following rule is used:

     .. math:: | image\_input - image\_blotted | > scale*image\_deriv + SNR*noise

     The noise in this equation is calculated using a combination of the detector read

>      noise and the poisson noise of the blotted median image plus the sky background.

Reviewer: I don't think this is correct - the noise in the equation is the input error for the image.

Author: How is that computed?

I agree this should be changed, because the outlier step doesn't do any of those calculations, but I think the intent was to re-explain how we got that error estimate in the first place

Reviewer: It is normal error propagation for everything up to this point in the pipeline - the error estimate is a combination of the flat, read noise, and poisson variance components.  The important part here is that it is not from the "blotted median image plus the sky background". It is the error estimate corresponding to the input SCI array, unresampled and unmasked.

     The SNR in this equation is the ``snr`` parameter, which encodes two values that
     determine whether a pixel should be masked:
     the first value detects the primary cosmic ray, and the second masks
     lower-level bad pixels adjacent to those found in the first pass. Since
     cosmic rays often extend across several pixels, the adjacent pixels make
     use of a slightly lower SNR threshold.

> #. Update input data model DQ arrays with mask of detected outliers.

Reviewer: SCI, ERR, and VAR arrays are also updated here.

Memory Saving Options
---------------------
The outlier detection algorithm for imaging can require a lot of memory
depending on the number of inputs, the size of each input, and the size of the
final output product.  Specifically,

#. By default, all input exposures are kept open in memory to make
   processing more efficient.

#. The resample step creates an output product that is the

>    same size as the final output product, which for imaging modes can span all chips in the detector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   same size as the final output product, which for imaging modes can span all detectors
```

   while also accounting for all dithers. Although only a single resampled image is needed in 
   memory at a time, for some Level 3 products, each resampled image can be on the order of several
   gigabytes in size.

#. The median combination step needs to have all pixels at the same position on
   the sky in memory in order to perform the median computation. The simplest (and fastest) implementation
   requires keeping all resampled outputs fully in memory at the same time.

> This has been addressed by implementing an overall memory model for outlier detection that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These concerns have been addressed by implementing an overall memory model for outlier detection that
```
